Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with WebEx Developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing your show notes
For 527. In this episode,
Scott talks with Asha Hammerly
about practical containers and how
they affect workflow. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
today. We're talking with Audra
Hammerly, who is a cloud
developer advocate with Google. Thanks
for chatting with me today.
Hello, this is great. So
we're going to talk about
containers. We're talking about microservices,
and I know it's funny
to start a podcast with
those two buzz words, because
those are the buzz words.
Everyone is saying this, why
is containers and microservices? So
talked about why is it?
Have we reached peak buzzword
with these two things? So
I think it really helps
to like take a step
back and think about the
problems that people have had
with microservices. So before I
was at Google, I was
a contract developer and a
rails developer for about eight
years. And microservices became huge
in the rails community, but
one of the big problems
people had was deployment and
managing huge quantities of separate
separate services, separate sites that
had different scaling requirements, different
performance, characteristics, maybe some of
them needed access to two
databases, a primary and a
data warehouse and others were
completely independent of a database
and containers have kind of
come along as a potential
solution to that big frustration.
And I had really no
idea what containers could do
until about 18 months ago.
And I started hearing Docker,
talked about it, a lot
of conferences, and now that
I've had a little experience
with them, I think there's
a lot of potential for
folks running complicated deployments, whether
that's multiple services, multiple websites
needing to better utilize their
VM resources or folks who
are just doing things that
are cross cloud, you need
to have, we need to
have your stuff in multiple
data centers and all that
stuff. I think containers can
help with a lot. So
that's kind of, I think
why they're coming up right
now. And I mean, I
totally get that. They're a
buzzword. I think every conference
I've been to in the
last year has had a,
container's talk of some sort,
even if I wasn't giving
it. So yeah, I'm, I'm
one of the chairs this
year of Oz con and
we're getting From some folks,
folks, maybe with a little
bit more historical context who
are saying that, Oh, that's,
it's all just containers and
microservices talks like that's just
the buzzword that we're going
to use this year. And
I don't know, I don't
know how to answer those
because sometimes they are the
buzzwords that we need today.
Like this is, like you
said more than a buzzword,
it's a solution to an
actual real world problem that
people are having. And I
think there's a lot of
pushback on the fact that
it's a buzzword, but the
bottom line is container technologies
were really cool. The idea
that you can take an
application, package it up with
all of its dependencies and
take it in a package,
whether that's a Docker container
or a rocket container or
some custom container format is
Google's been using containers and
custom container formats for quite
a while and push that
out anywhere and not have
to worry about making sure
that all your dependencies are
installed. Not having to worry
about if your libraries or
library source like something like
rubygems.org or NPM is down,
or whether somebody pushed an
extroversion of a library and
you didn't get your dependencies
quite right. Just knowing that
if you have that box
of the application, its dependencies
and its file system all
ready to go, and you
can push that out anywhere.
You want to push that
out to multiple clouds. You
want to push that out
to your test system. You
to I pre-prod system that
your sales and marketing team
use for making promotional videos.
All of that's just super
easy at that point. And
it changes how you think
about ops. It changes how
you think about even your
deployment pipeline. That's one of
the things that I really
struggled with when we were
thinking about using this for
a huge microservices site, I
was working on a, we
had, I think, seven different
code bases in three different
languages on that site, all
to run one site. And
we were like, okay, we
need to come up with
a way to deploy this
in a reasonable fashion. That
can be, it was contract
and work. So it needed
to be something that our
contracting client can pick up
from us and, you know,
a 50 step deployment guide
wasn't, wasn't gonna cut it.
And so we talked, we
talked about using containers and
we're working on containerizing it
when I ended up getting
switched off the project. And
the idea was that if
we could make a system
that would build out the
containers with Docker, all they
would have to do is
find a web host. And
there are lots of them
who would be willing to
host the containers in a
managed fashion. And that made
the whole deployment process so
much easier for our customer
and also for us, because
it meant that the deployment
was always consistent, whether that
was in our disaster recovery
system, which was in a
completely different cloud vendor than
our primary cloud vendor. It
all, it all worked out
and it was very, very
consistent. And I think that's
the big thing that a
lot of people are missing
with containers because a lot
of the talks I've been
seeing and a lot of
the blog posts are about
the deep level. This is
how we make containers work
in the Linux kernel, but
the practical, how do I
use them day to day
as a day to day
developer seems to be still
a little bit of a
mystery. And if you just
think about it as a
way of packaging, your site
with the dependencies and everything
else ready to go, it
gets a little easier and
it gets a little more
obvious how that would benefit
you. I mean, repeatability is
the golden standard and deployment
as someone who also did
QA in the testing world,
he wants stuff to be
the same every single time.
Right? Yeah. It seems Like,
I think you're right in,
in so many conferences, it's
a, you know, let's do
Docker one Oh one and
then they're like, here's how
we talk to the Colonel.
And that's not, that's not
necessarily what I want to
hear about. Right? Like I
want to turn on the
faucet and have there be
water. I don't want to
learn how to do plumbing.
You know what I mean?
And while plumbing may be
fascinating, it doesn't help me
practically in my life. Yeah.
And I think that's the,
one of the big things.
I did a series of
blog posts on how to
do a basic rail site,
very basic rail site and
Docker with Docker containers and
then deploying with Kubernetes, which
is one of the current
contenders in the space of
container management. That one happens
to be at least partially
authored by Google. So I
have a little more detailed
knowledge of it, but it's
entirely open source. There's a
lot of, there's more contributors
outside of Google at this
point than there are inside,
which is awesome. And there
are some pretty big stumbling
blocks. If you're thinking about
a system like rails or
a system like Django and
containerizing, first of all, where
do you put the database?
How does that go? And
that's always a huge stumbling
block for folks. Another stumbling
block is, well, how do
you deal with database migrations?
But at the same time,
if you do the work
upfront and there's generally pretty
good patterns for solving those
stumbling blocks, you also get
some pretty cool benefits. Containers
make auto-scaling fairly easy because
you have this box, this
package that is your app.
And there's a lot of
folks to do auto-scaling by
just making more VMs. But
the cool thing about containers
is that I can put
the same container multiple times
on one VM and I
get additional throughput. I get
additional capacity for my site,
and that's really handy for
all doing things like auto
scaling and Kubernetes supports that
as of, I believe the
one, one release and some
of the other container management
tools coming out from other
cloud vendors also support that.
And so there's a lot
of cool advantages. And the
actual day to day packaging
up over the container is
not that hard because doctors
have been great. Docker hub
has example containers for pretty
much every web framework that
you'd want as long as
it runs on some flavor
of Linux. So if you
have rails, you want engine
X, you want Django. There's
a, there's a container sitting
out there that you can
at least use as a
starting point. And there's a
lot of folks will say,
those containers are big. The
rails container in particular has
database drivers for both my
SQL and Postgres, and most
folks don't need both of
those. Most folks would benefit
from only having one, but
at least gets you started.
It makes the barrier to
entry, actually a lot smaller
than you get. When you're
sitting there listening to the,
and this is how we
act the kernel to do
this following thing. You just
actually sit down and try
it. It's really not that
hard, which surprised me a
lot. I actually did a
talk called dev ops for
the lazy using containers as
a way to be lazy.
Because once you have a
bat, once you have a
bundled up the deployment, part's
actually pretty simple because you're
letting Docker or some hosted
container service, do it for
you. So let me, let
me go back and grab
a couple of words and
what you said and dig
a little bit deeper into
them. Because one thing that
you said was consistency. And
then you also said a
number of times, not worrying,
not worrying, which made me
realize that there's been many,
many years where we live
in fear of our deployments,
right? And this is bigger
than continuous integration and continuous
deployment. It's just like, I
don't really know if these
15 machines in the web
farm all have the same
bits on them and if
they're consistent and if they
are in fact what I
wanted to. Yeah. And so
let's talk about the consistency
side first. So there are
lots of ways to deal
with consistency. And again, I'm
coming from a Ruby and
node background. So I'm sure
that other web frameworks have
better or worse or similar
ways of dealing with this,
but in Ruby land, especially
rails, land, and even a
node, you spend a lot
of time stringing together, other
people's libraries. And then you're
pulling those from some canonical
source, whether that's NPM or
rubygems.org or the equivalent for
various other web frameworks. And
is anyone who's done that
professionally knows those services are
almost always a labor of
love by the community. People
aren't paying to keep rubygems.org
up or npm.org. It's actually
not entirely true in Ruby
Ruby lands now because there's
a group of companies that
have decided to sponsor ruby.org,
but they decided to sponsor
it because they needed it
to be up and they
needed it to be consistent.
And I've been bitten by
a developer on my team,
not being careful enough with
the version dependency and having
a library. We needed version
than some breaking way and
only half the machines getting
it because of we did
the rollout over a course
of several days, or we
auto scaled up two days
after a release. And in
that two days, a new
version of something came out
and it broke half of
the machines and someone who's
done ops and testing. The
worst thing in the world
is a bug that only
reprots half the time, especially
when you can't figure out
exactly what half the time
is. And when you're round
robining requests, that makes it
even harder. And so they,
one of the things I
like about containers is that
you build that container once
and then every single machine
gets the exact same bits.
And whether those bits are
the ones you want is,
you know, that's up to
your QA process and your
build process, but at least
all the machines have the
same vets and all the
machines have the same base
file system, too. I know
lots of folks who are
slowly upgrading, like they've, they've
put in a longterm contract
with their called vendor for
a specific machine type and
they own, and now they
need extra machines. So they're
gonna have some of their
machines be an older machine
type. And some of their
machines be a newer, more
powerful machine type. And for
the most part, it shouldn't
matter. But if you're doing
a lot of stuff, like
you're doing a lot of
file processing image processing, video
transcoding, maybe the difference in
disc size or the difference
in GPU is matters. And
when you have containers, you
have a little bit more
access to controlling that, especially
if you use a attached,
attached to network discs, as
opposed to using the disc
inside your container. So that's
kind of the thing on
the consistency and that a
lot of that's coming from
fear from my place. Cause
I mean, I carried a
pager for three years working
in ops and QA. And
the worst thing I hated
was when something didn't RevPro
in test. And I know
cause I've done these container
deployments. Now that the machine
that I deploy, the set
that I deploy locally, exactly
the same set of code
or the stuff that I
deployed to the server that
sits under my desk is
exactly the same code and
will behave in exactly the
same way when I deploy
it to the cloud. Assuming
that the base OS is
the same and getting the
base of us to be
the same as easy. Yeah.
Before containers, I felt like
I was either fighting with
the file system and my
deployment to make sure it
was consistent and reliable. And
I would always end up
with one file being, you
know, some file being out
of date. And then of
course, then it's a flaky
bug. You have to go
hunt down. Or on the
other side, do everything with
virtual machines, which were so
heavy. It's like, this is
only a hundred megabyte web
application. Let me go and
deploy this 30 gigabyte VM
image that gets, you know,
gets me what I need.
And it seems like containers.
Yeah, they do. Especially in
production. They do have the
disadvantage of at least I,
I do all my development
on a Mac and I
still have to run virtual
machines to host my containers.
But it's, it's different than
when I had to do
all my development against the
virtual machine, which I did
for nine months. Cause we
deployed, we set up a,
a virtual machine image that
we all use that mirrored
pretty closely our production image.
And then we all had
to, as a stage into
the local virtual machine and
do our, do all of
our development and testing via
SSH and SEP. And it
was just, it was, it
was incredibly painful. But the
reason we had to do
that was that was the
only way to make it
so that on a contracting
team where we had people
cycling in and out every
couple months, everyone's dev environment
was close enough to production
that we wouldn't end up
with crazy incompatibilities when we
pushed. And that was with
a team that was doing
a good job of continuous
integration and relatively continuous deployment
where to play a couple
of times a week. And
we did a pretty good
job of testing and code
reviews and we still had
those problems. So the fact
that containers, we were looking
at containers specifically because we
needed something a little more
lightweight and a little more
consistent. And I mean, there's
great tools for configuring your,
your systems. I mean, there's
things like chef and puppet
and I've used them and
they're wonderful, but they don't
have the advantage of having
everything be neatly packaged off
with a bow. When you
hand it over to the
ops team. That's one of
the patterns I'm actually seeing
a lot with teams that
use containers is the development
team is responsible for building
the containers. They're responsible for
making sure that their containers
set up and then they
pass it over the wall
to ops as a prepackaged
Mundell that ops all they
have to do is make
sure that there's enough places
to put that container on
the hardware, whether that's virtual
or on prem hardware or
whatever the team has. The
ops team is just responsible
for deploying that container into
the, into the data center
and possibly helping with some
of the networking stuff, but
actually getting all the dependencies.
It's no longer the operations
team's responsibility. That is such
an important point. I'm really
glad that you brought that
up because there've been so
many times where I've felt
that the responsibilities of, of
ops, you know, kind of
their lines were blurred and
they were into my space
and I wanted a certain
file, you know, installed on
the machine or some global
dependency. And I had to
fill out forms and ask
permission and, you know, get,
I couldn't get into a
locked machine because ultimately what
it came down to the
root cause was my app
wasn't neatly packaged up with
all dependencies all the way
down to the operating system.
It went down just halfway.
And then there were, you
know, I had to give
them a word document for
God's sake, you know, with
a list of other, you
know, global. Yeah. I will
admit that at some point
in my distant past, I
figured out what the bribery
for a particular ops team
was. And it happened to
be a specific kind of
candy. And I'm more than
one occasion knocked on the
door to the knock and
with a, you know, handful
of candy. And I'm like
here now, can you please
give me SSH access or
Telnet access or whatever I
needed so that I can
go see the raw logs
on this machine so I
can debug this issue. And
the thing is, I tell
this story to folks and
most of the folks who've
been in the industry for
more than four or five
years, have a similar story
where they've had to do
some sort of bribery or
no late night dealing or
pushing, pushing things up to
three levels of managers in
order to get access, to
actually debug their, their issues
and anything that can help
make those lines a little
bit cleaner. I think it
makes everyone happy. Cause then
it makes the developer happy.
Cause they know that what
they've set up will be
what actually it gets deployed.
And that there isn't going
to be someone saying, no,
actually I think this other
version of this library is
safer, more secure. And at
the same time, ops is
not going to have to
deal with feeling responsible for
debugging. You know, doc has
got 80 deployment steps. Cause
you know, I think a
lot of us have worked
on that app. You have
to pull in all of
these dependencies, you have to
install these particular resources. In
this particular order, you have
to start the apps. There's
a microservices app in the
following order. Otherwise the database
connections don't get resolved. And
most of the ops folks
I know would love to
get out of that business.
So I think the container,
I think the containers model
where the development team deploys
hands over this package and
says, make this go is
gonna make everyone happier. Once
we get used to it,
then that's the big, that's
the big challenge It, and
at that point, at that
point, they just have to
think about there's a box
and there's a port, right.
And make it talk to
that port. Yeah. Perhaps there's
some service discovery stuff. Although
if you're going to use
one of the managed slightly
managed container services from the
big cloud providers that that
solves itself on its own
and or at least they
have easy ways to do
that. And most of the
ops teams I know are
pretty good about setting up
the basic network rules and
those don't change in container
land. Cause again, it's, it's
important. It's important on a
box. Can we talk about
that for a second? You
you've mentioned a couple of
different container services. Like once
you have containers, once you've
picked your container technology, there
are things to manage them
because it's very rare that
you're going to have an
app that lives in one
container and you upload that
one container and that's the
end of at the end
of it, you might start
it. You might get the
container bug and now it's
a dozen. And then it's
two dozen. Next thing you
know, you're managing a swarm
of hundreds of containers. What
are some examples of containers?
I worked for Google. We
have, we are one of
the main sponsors behind the
Kubernetes project. We have a
bunch of folks working on
Kubernetes and Kubernetes for folks
who are familiar with the
ops space and some of
the technologies at Google, Google
runs a lot of stuff
on something called Borg. And
what Kubernetes is, is Google
taking a lot of the
things we learned about how
to run containers at scale,
the kinds of challenges that
are common. And we took
those lessons from Borg and
wrote Kubernetes from scratch. And
what Kubernetes does is it
says you specify what you
want the system to look
like. I have a deep
fondness for programming languages that
are declarative, where you say
what you want, not how
to do something. And so
you might say, I have
this front end app container
that I want, at least
I want six instances of
it. I have a backend
job processor that, you know,
maybe sends out an email
or maybe there's a video
transcoding or something in the
background. And I want three
instances of that. And then
I have this database container
and I only need one
instance of that, but it
needs a persistent disc attached
to it because I don't
want to, one of the
pitfalls of containers is that
general best practices. You should
be prepared for your container
to die at any time.
Not because they do, but
because the advantages of containers
are that you can move
them around. And so if
you need something like a
database, which a lot of
people are kind of iffy
about putting in containers, but
I've done it and it
works great. You just need
to have a disc, some
sort of block store discs,
cause they get attached to
the container that it can
put the database files on.
And with Kubernetes, you say,
you just specify out in
Yamhill or Jason, this container
named this many instances, this
container named this many instances.
And then we also provide
a way through your Kubernetes
to do discovery where you
can say everything in this
container is part of this
service. And so you can
hook the containers together via
the service names pretty easily
and figuring out which IP
that is in round robining
and stuff is all taken
care of for you. Once
you have a Kubernetes cluster
up and running and I'm,
I will admit for me,
at least setting up a
Kubernetes cluster is way more
complicated than I want to
get into. Luckily hosted Kubernetes
exists, Google calls it Google
container engine. And so that's
one option. There's also tools
like Dockers forum, which I've
played with a bit, it's
a little bit lighter weight.
It's not designed to do
all the niceties of service
discovery and stuff for you.
I know Amazon has their
container product. I know some
folks who work on it
and it has some, again,
some slight philosophy differences on
how containers should be managed
from Kubernetes. And that's one
of the things I find
interesting about this space is
that there's a couple of
companies who have been playing
in it for a while
and actually using containers in
production for a while. And
they all seem to have
different opinions on best practices.
And it'll be interesting over
the next year or two
as more people pick up
containers to see which best
practices seem to come out.
I have a fondness for
the Kubernetes system, partly just
because I'm most familiar with
it, but also because anyone
who takes care of my
networking and my service discovery
for me is going to
get massive bonus points is
I find that stuff tedious.
So if I can just
say, Hey, I need five
versions of this container and
they should all respond to
this name and we should
automatically round Robin between them.
And I can do that
all six lines of Yammel
I'm, I'm all, I'm all
in on that. That's great
because it lets me be
lazy. So there's a lot
of those. There's just, I
mean, those are the three
big ones that I know
of. I'm sure there are
more, that I'm not a
hundred percent aware of. And
I know that there are
more people coming out with
different ways of managing containers
every single day. Like when
I started working on this
a year ago, the list
was entirely different. So it's
one of those rapidly changing
things based on people's opinions
and based just also based
on people's experiences of running
containers in production and what
ends up being hard. Right.
Right. It seems like right
now there's like a bit
of a, I wouldn't say
a cold war, but you
know, like there's just lots
of different people doing lots
of different innovations. And from
the people on the outside
who maybe aren't doing containers,
they're hearing all of these
strange new words, whether it
be Kubernetes or zookeeper or
misos or swarm. And they're
wondering how all these things
plug into each other and,
and whether the layer cake
that they would be choosing
as a company would be
the right layer cake. And
then of course the bottom
layer of the cake would
be the cloud that they,
that they pick that they
put the thing on. And
in the past, you know,
cross cloud has been kind
of a myth. It hasn't
like there's always been vendor
lock in at some point,
but do you think containers
could allow us to really
have a cloud portability? That's
my big hope. And when
I go to conferences and
I'm talking to folks and
since I work at Google
and I'm an advocate for
Google cloud, I'm talking to
folks about Google cloud and
very few of the big
to medium sized companies. I've
been talking to really want
to stick with one cloud.
And they're like, well, how
can we, how can we
do this so that, you
know, on the off chance
that there's a massive outage
or, you know, stuff happens,
Intercontinental fiber cables get eaten
by it and get bitten,
getting apart by sharks and
stuff, right? Lightning storms happen,
how can we make it
so that we can stay
up? Even if this happens
in one of our vendors
go down. I mean, every
major cloud provider has had
at least a regional outage
that people in the industry
I've heard about. And the
nice thing about containers is
that as long as you
can get Docker or whatever,
your container runner is on
some version of Linux that
supports it, you can move
your containers anywhere and you
can just pick them up
wholesale. That doesn't deal with
the data piece. If you're
writing to your cloud providers,
specific storage, but most of
the cloud providers I've talked
to and I've been on
panels with folks from Microsoft
and AWS, they're all like,
no, we, we want to
make it so that you
can move because competition is
good for us in this
space. And I really believe
that's true. And the nice
thing about containers though, is
that unlike some of the
platform, as a service stuff,
where you get locked into
a specific runtime and a
specific set of tools that
a provider might support, if
you, if you can do
the upfront effort and it
is a little more effort
than just deploying to something,
that's a platform as a
service where you're just like,
here's my get repo go.
If you can do the
upfront effort, it gives you
more portability. I can take
the same containers that I
ran on Google container engine.
I can run them on
hardware that I have physical
hardware that I've bought. And
that's what a lot of
folks that I've been talking
to are doing. They need,
they, they're still trying to
convince their upper level management
that the cloud is a
good idea, but they want
to be prepared for it.
So they're starting out by
getting all their stuff internally,
containerized, partly because it lets
them use their limited hardware
resources better. They can run
multiple apps on a VM
in a ways that they
don't collide. But also it
means that when it's time
to move to the cloud
or when they have that
really good day or they
go viral, they can add
capacity quickly because they have
this image that they can
deploy and start up in
a couple of minutes, it's
like a Kubernetes cluster running
rails. I can get the
whole thing up and running,
including downloading the images from
Docker hub in less than
five minutes. And that's awesome
compared to how long some
of my deployments took with
tools like chef and puppet,
where I was having to
do multiple passes to get
all of the environment variables
and everything set correctly. Right.
And that's something that people
almost need to see to
believe. Yeah, there's a, there's
a great video done by
one of my coworkers, Brian Dorsey,
where he had one of
the lead developers on Kubernetes
timed, making a latte versus
starting up a Kubernetes cluster.
And it was, it was
kind of ridiculous, but it
also pointed it out. And
one of the demos I
like to do with containers
is I like to kill
one of the VMs that
I'm using to run my
set of containers and then
watch the scheduler, move them
around so that I don't
lose any capacity. And you
know, you hope that your
VM doesn't die, but sometimes
they do. You hope that
your hard drive doesn't die,
but sometimes they do. And
seeing that the whole thing
can be reconfigured in less
than two seconds. And it
really is that fast is
just amazing because coming from
a world where I did
to manually, I couldn't recover
from it. I couldn't recover
from a disc failure that
quickly. Like I remember getting
in the car with the
ops manager, my boss and
driving down to the data
center South of Seattle and
going in and dealing with
a machine that had gone
bad because the data center
had had a fire. And
like that was like, it
was a big deal. We
were offline for three hours.
And if we had a
been in the cloud and
B been using container-based technology,
it wouldn't have been that
bad. We may have lost
a little bit of time,
data, database replication to get
to a different data center.
But even if we had
set up a proper disaster
recovery with a replica, with
a replica at another data
center, which is considered best
practice at this point, we
wouldn't have lost hardly any
time at all. And that's
the idea that, that that
is the AI that's possible
and be unlike five years
ago. And that seemed really
hard and required a lot
of just duplicating effort, having
hot, hot swappable servers on
that. You're not using, you
don't have to do that
anymore. If you have the
container image up, getting it
up and running is, you
know, 10 minute process in
different data center for your
provider, possibly even less. Right.
Yeah. And people who are
listening might be like, some
may be nodding and some,
some may be going now
that's Oh, that's exaggeration. But
it really isn't because once
you, you know, all of
the, all the Lego pieces
are here now, we've got,
you know, durable storage that
we can rely on. And
we, That's just the right
layers of abstraction. And you
know, whether you do decide
to pick, you know, Docker
swarm and compose, or whether
you decide to use that
patchy mezzos or whatever, whatever
thing that you pick, it
does appear that the cloud
vendors are allowing for choice.
Like one of the teams
that I worked on as
a PA was on the
Azure container service. And, you
know, you might go, no,
it's going to be Microsoft
Azure and they're going to
make you use their stuff,
but it uses swarm and
it uses misos and you
can pick the one that
makes you happy. So then
theoretically, you could run a
container on Google cloud. You
could move it to AWS,
you could move it to
Azure and it would just
behave the same way everywhere.
And presumably then they compete
not based on their, on
their container. Toolings is that,
would it be all of
us? There was some container
to Lehman's closed source. Some
of the, some of the
vendors are putting out their
own container services that are
close to ours. And even
Kubernetes, the hosted version has
some closed source components, but
the base underlying Kubernetes is
entirely open source and completely
developed in the open that's.
One of the big things
is that all the bugs
and everything are tracked in
the open and it's community-based.
And the whole idea is
that, is that containers seem
like they're a really, really
good way to solve a
lot of the problems that
folks are having. And specifically
a lot of the problems
that are preventing folks from
adopting the cloud, cause they
don't want to be locked
in. And if you know
that the promise of containers
is, and thus far, I've
seen it to be true,
that you can package this
thing up and pick it
up and take it somewhere
else. If your provider isn't
doing what you want, if
your provider doesn't have a
data center in the region
that you need, or if,
you know, it's just going
to be cheaper to move
it elsewhere. And I think
everyone benefits, at least all
the big cloud providers benefit
when people have choice, because
it will encourage cloud providers
to make better tools. And
it will also let folks
do actually do cross cloud
for real, because it just
seems not unwise for a
really big site with really
strict uptime requirements to necessarily
put all of their, all
of their eggs in one
basket. So to speak. I
know there are folks doing
it, and I know there
are folks doing it very
successfully, but I also know
that if you're not one
of the huge players, it's
frequently easier to sell your
management chain on the cloud.
If you can sell them
on something that's cross-cloud that
you can promise to them
that if one of your
providers has a bad day,
you're not going to be
completely out of luck. And
at least that was my
experience. We had a lot
of problems selling folks on
the cloud, both of the
startup I worked at for
five years and also when
I was consulting. And once
we were able to convince
them that we would happily
support across cloud solution or
one provider was the disaster
recovery for the other. They
were much more willing to
accept the cloud as opposed
to having to expose, to
wanting to buy and maintain
their own hardware. And we
wanted them to be on
the cloud just because it
made it easier for us
to manage. And it made
it easier for us to
upgrade systems and debatably. We
thought it was more cost
effective because it let us
scale the system down when
we weren't using it. A
lot of the products I've
worked on have very particular
time-based load curves, being able
to dynamically scale really helps
with cost. So yeah, there's
a lot of advantages and
I really think containers while
they're a buzzword. I do
think that for a lot
of people, they're at least
worth investigating to see if
it might solve some of
the current pain process pain
prop points in your deployment
process or in your ops
story. Yeah. I really liked
the way that it formalizes
responsibilities. Like the part of
this conversation that is resonated
with me the most is
the, the idea of choice,
but also the idea of
responsibilities, like what's dev ops
real job. And where's the
clean bright line between what
they do and what I
do as a developer. But
then from a container perspective,
like what's the job of
the operating system. What's what's
what is the app represent?
How cleanly is it packaged?
And what's the job of
the cloud that the thing
sits on and ultimately who
owns your, who owns your
uptime, right. You know, you
do. And if you want
to go with a hybrid
cloud where the cloud is
with another cloud providers or
backup, that's absolutely your right.
And you should have a
technology stack that supports that
hopefully formalize the mean, my
big hope is that this
will make everything a little
cleaner and a little easier
and a lot less messy
in between the steps of
making something cool and sharing
that something cool with the
rest of the world. And
we'll see, I mean, this
is still new days for
a lot of this technology.
I mean, Kubernetes only went
one last fall, I believe.
And Docker swarm and compose
that store, that all that
stuff's under active development, the
container services from other cloud
providers are under active development.
And I'm guessing in the
next six months to a
year, maybe longer, I'm not
a prognosticator and we'll start
it. We'll be starting to
see some best practices in
this area. And I definitely
have some opinions and I've
shared some of them, but
I'm also just curious to
see what people do with
this, what people do with
this technology and how it
helps them make cool things
faster. Yeah. It definitely seems
like it's here to stay.
It's not just buzzwords. Yeah.
I definitely agree. Cool. Well,
thanks so much for chatting
with me today. This was
lovely. Thank you. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week. .